docs: add Incident Response Process (IRP) (#6237)
fastify/fastify: INCIDENT_RESPONSE_PLAN.md

follow up on this report becoming the Remediation Developer.

With the help of the individual who reported the vulnerability, they contact the
maintainers of the vulnerable package to make them aware of the vulnerability.
The maintainers can be invited as participants to the reported issue.

With the package maintainer, they define a release date for the publication of
the vulnerability. Ideally, this release date should not happen before the
package has been patched.

The report's vulnerable versions upper limit should be set to:
* `*` if there is no fixed version available by the time of publishing the
  report.
* the last vulnerable version. For example: `<=1.2.3` if a fix exists in `1.2.4`

### Step 3: Communication and Publication

**Delay:** 90 days

Within 90 days after the triage date, the vulnerability must be made public
by the Incident Commander.

**Severity**: Vulnerability severity is assessed using [CVSS
v.3](https://www.first.org/cvss/user-guide). More information can be found on
[HackerOne documentation](https://docs.hackerone.com/hackers/severity.html)

If a patch is in progress, a delay may be approved by the security team and
reporter.

> At this point, a CVE should be requested through the selected platform through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, a CVE should be requested through the selected platform via
```

Double `through` doesn't read well.

- Compromise or abuse of GitHub/GitHub Actions or related infrastructure
- Registry or package issues (e.g., npm hijacking or tampering)
- Dependencies with direct security implications
- Public disclosure of sensitive bugs
- Unusual project activity (e.g., mass spam, rogue commits)

## Roles & Responsibilities

| Role | Responsibility |
|------|----------------|
Reporter | Submit a complete security report to the Security Triage Team
Incident Commander | Leads the response, assigns roles, coordinates communication. Documents the timeline and actions for retrospective
Analyst | Determine if the reported issue is a real vulnerability and identify potential mitigation strategies and workarounds
Remediation Developer | Develop a patch or solution based on the reported vulnerability

## Response Phases

### Step 0: Security Report Received

When a potential vulnerability is reported, one of the [Security Team Members](https://github.com/fastify/fastify/blob/main/SECURITY.md#the-fastify-security-team)
will be promoted as Incident Commander and will start the process.

### Step 1: Triage

**Delay:** 4 business days

> Within 4 business days, the Incident Commander provides a first answer to
> the individual who submitted the potential vulnerability.
> A member of the security team can be elected to Analyst to help the Incident
> Commander validating the reported issue.
> 
> The possible responses
> can be:
> 
> * **Acceptance**: what was reported is considered as a new vulnerability
> * **Rejection**: what was reported is not considered as a new vulnerability
> * **Need more information**: the security team needs more information in order to
>   evaluate what was reported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within 4 business days, the Incident Commander replies to the reporter.
An Analyst may be assigned to help validate the issue.

Possible responses can be:
- **Accepted**: Confirmed vulnerability
- **Rejected**: Not a vulnerability
- **Need more info**: More details required
```

Triaging should include updating issue fields:
* Asset - set/create the module affected by the report
* Severity - TBD, currently left empty

Reference: [HackerOne: Submitting
Reports](https://docs.hackerone.com/hackers/submitting-reports.html)

### Step 2: Remediation

**Delay:** 90 days

When a vulnerability is confirmed, a member of the security team volunteers to
follow up on this report becoming the Remediation Developer.

With the help of the individual who reported the vulnerability, they contact the
maintainers of the vulnerable package to make them aware of the vulnerability.
The maintainers can be invited as participants to the reported issue.

With the package maintainer, they define a release date for the publication of

> the vulnerability. Ideally, this release date should not happen before the

Reviewer 2: Got it, and yeah, believe so; this given that, in the situation where no issue opened publicly and we are following the process without any bifurcation, the less room for ambiguity the better. Thinking especially about the heat of the situation that can lead to misunderstanding given possible stress or what not due to the incident.

And for the other case, yeah, it would be nice to clarify that it can happen but is something we will try to avoid.
